Hi All,

Once every month or so I knock together a “Friday Thought” on a subject that has taken my interest or has maybe come up in discussion with some of you during support sessions.  These Friday thoughts can come from my experience, your experience, things I’ve read recently, seen on TV, cloud writing…. Or just about anywhere.  I hope you find them interesting and food for thought.

This Friday Thought will focus on “storytelling”.

Once upon a time…. No, sorry.  Not that.  Let me try again. 

When I was at school, I wanted to be a vicar.  A surprising career choice for an atheist but that didn’t deter me.  As I went to a Church of England school we would routinely have the local vicar visit the school and tell us stories from the bible.  This guy really put some welly into it and told them with complete conviction and fantasy.  I was hooked.  I remember thinking “wouldn’t it be great to go around telling these stories all the time”. 

I haven’t gone on to become a vicar.  What some might say is the church’s loss is social enterprise’s gain.  Okay, no one has said that, but I digress.  But what I have ended up enjoying throughout my career is public speaking.  Similarly, the first project (in my heart of hearts I can’t call it a social enterprise) I set up delivered creative writing workshops.  I love reading, writing, drawing and comedy.  It’s all there folks, it’s all obvious when you connect the dots backwards, I never wanted to be a vicar.  I wanted to be a storyteller; that’s really what got me hooked all those years ago.  

So how does this help you?  

Well over the course of a year I read the best part of 200 applications, see 50 odd pitches and see shed loads of marketing campaigns from my entrepreneurs.   Some of you are fantastic at telling stories.  Some of you less so.  However, we all know how it feels when we are moved by a story we hear.  Whilst my amateurish enthusiasm for storytelling hasn’t left me with divine wisdom on the subject, I would like to pass on some resources and tricks I’ve stumbled across.  This is in the hope that some sprinkling of this storytelling magic dust might give you and your work the same gusto for storytelling as I have.  

There are a handful of places where stories can be helpful for you, namely: sales, pitching, public speaking, marketing, branding and leadership.  

I’ve seen many great products, services, and ideas flounder not because they were wrong but because they weren’t shared in the right way.  We are all guilty of running a boring meeting, underselling ourselves or our ideas, or not getting the audience embedded in our mission.  So, my challenge to you is think about how storytelling can help your social enterprise.  This could be changing how you behave as a leader, the content you create or how you share your mission.  What I promise you is that you all have a great story and you are all creative.  Sometimes it’s just about getting going. 

As such here are some helpful guides to play around with: 

*	Some examples of structures for stories: https://blog.reedsy.com/guide/story-structure/  
*	Leadership and storytelling: https://hbr.org/2020/10/storytelling-can-make-or-break-your-leadership  
*	Social media and storytelling: https://www.willow.co/blog/8-storytelling-frameworks-for-a-stronger-social-media-presence  
*	Exercises and techniques to help you tell your story: https://pipdecks.com/pages/storyteller-tactics#four   

 

Failing all of that keep one point in mind: “what’s the hook?” Every narrative needs a hook.  Bring the reader in and get them interested. 


If you are keen to get going on this, but don’t know where to start, I’ve attached an 8-minute exercise to have a go at.  For best results don’t read ahead to the next task until you’ve completed the one you are working on.  The aim of the exercise is to help you create some sort of content that could be used in your marketing (e.g. a blog post, social media post etc) 

If you had a go at the exercise I’m hoping that it rushed you a bit.  In part that’s what it’s there to do.  Often getting started means you are half done, and I hope that’s what this exercise has helped you to do is get started.  Take some time to refine what you’ve written, think about other storytelling frameworks you could use and where else you could use them.  As Seamus Heaney said: “If you have the words, there's always a chance that you'll find the way.” 

Do let me know your thoughts on this subject matter.  I’d love to see some of the things you are working on related to storytelling and your social enterprise.  

Good luck.

Tim. 

Tim Lages (he/him)
Social Entrepreneur Support Manager
timothylages@unltd.org.uk   

  

 

Mobile number: 07834 523 820
UnLtd Head Office: 123 Whitecross Street, Islington, London, 
EC1Y 8JJ

Book a meeting with me: BOOKING LINK   
View our healthy ageing cohort HERE  

Attend our Peer Support Calls: HERE  

 

  We find, fund and support social entrepreneurs to reach their potential.

